{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2759
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww25480\viewh17500\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
Different archaeal communities produce GDGT compounds. \
\
Some archaeal communities are known to produce GDGT molecules, which are preserved in marine sediment and can be used to study past ocean temperatures. GDGT molecules vary in the number of cyclopentane rings are present in their hydrocarbon skeleton. These different communities produce different quantities of GDGTs and also have different metabolic strategies (e.g. heterotrophy, autotrophy etc.) and carbon sources. The d13C of GDGTs depends on the communities which produce these compounds and their isotopic composition of the carbon sources used to produce GDGTs. \
\
\
\
The goal of this project is to estimate the relative contributions of archaeal sources at methane plumes and surrounding environments, where we hypothesize methanotrophic, heterotrophic, and autotrophic archaea contribute to the GDGT lipid pool. These different communities produce different quantities of GDGTs and different isotopic signatures, which is reflected in the measured GDGT abundance and d13C measurements. The contribution of GDGTs from each source depends on the spatial distance from the methane plume; methane availability as a carbon source decreases with increasing distance from the methane plume \
\
\
The goal of this project is to estimate the \
\
\
\
The prevalence of the different communities depends on \
\
\
We hypothesize that the contributions of iGDGTs from methanotrophic archaea will decrease with increasing distanc\
\
the different metabolic patwhwaycarbon sources which are used to produce GDGTs. \
\
\
\
 which influence the d13C of GDGTs. \
In cold methane seep environments, methane-cycling archaea, in addition to heterotrophic and autotrophic archaea, contribute to the GDGT lipid archive.\
We want to estimate the relative contribution of the different sources and assess how distance from methane source impact the source contributions. \
\
The d13C of GDGTs depends on the communities which produce these compounds and the different metabolic pathways and carbon which are used to produce GDGTs. \
\
\
 We want to assess how the relative contributions of these different groups of archaea at methane plumes and varying distance from \
\
 We want to assess how the d13C of GDGTs changes as the community composition shifts with respect to distance from the methane seep. \
\
How distance form the methane plume impacts contributions}